---
layout: single
title: "WWDC 2016 - Swift"
date: 2016-06-19
categories: iOS Swift
---

Every WWDC's sessions about Swift.  
Streaming is available in Safarai, and through the WWDC App.  
  
[All WWDC 2016 Videos](https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc2016/)

## Session 207 - [What's New in Foundation for Swift](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2016/207/) ##

35 min  
Underlying nearly every iOS, macOS, watchOS, and tvOS application sits the Foundation framework. See how improvements to the fundamental set of API in Foundation will improve the experience of using Swift for the entire Cocoa and Cocoa Touch SDK. Learn how Foundation framework's new value types, adoption of standard library protocols, additional type safety, better generics, and custom operators will also make your own Swift code safer, faster, and more expressive.

## Session 402 - [Swift API Design Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2016/402/) ##

41 min  
Swift 3 introduces new API Design Guidelines specifically crafted to the unique character of Swift for clear, concise code. This talk will explore the philosophy behind the Swift API Design Guidelines and their application throughout the Swift Standard Library and the Cocoa and Cocoa Touch APIs. See how this API transformation will affect your Swift code and learn how to ensure a smooth transition to Swift 3. Learn how Swift 3 imports Objective-C APIs and how to expose rich Swift interfaces for existing Objective-C libraries.

## Session 403 - [What's New in Swift](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2016/403/) ##

41 min  
Hear about the newest features in Swift 3, the third major release of the safe, fast, and expressive language, and the first major release built with the open source community. Gain insight into the latest changes in Xcode including enhanced migration support to help move your code to Swift 3. Learn how you can get involved in the open source community at Swift.org.

## Session 404 - [Getting Started with Swift](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2016/404/) ##

51min  
Updated to include the latest features, syntax and best practices for Swift 3, this session introduces the basics of the Swift programming language. Learn the recommended manner in which to declare variables, define functions, work with fundamental value types, protocols, generics, and more. Explore some of the great features that make Swift a safe, fast, and expressive language.

## Session 408 - [Introducing Swift Playgrounds](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2016/408/) ##

50 min  
Learn more about Swift Playgrounds, the new iPad app that teaches coding using the powerful Swift programming language. Explore the featured content, complete with puzzles that help you master each coding concept. Learn more about the coding features of Swift Playgrounds and see how the editing experience was re-imagined for touch. Learn to use the included templates to build playgrounds and look at the available features in the new playground book format.

## Session 415 - [Going Server-Side with Swift Open Source](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2016/415/) ##

38 min  
While the Swift language makes it easy to write software that is incredibly fast and safe by design, Swift being open source means you can use it on an even broader range of platforms, from mobile devices to the desktop and in the cloud. Come for an overview of available projects at Swift.org and examples of the community in action.

## Session 416 - [Understanding Swift Performance](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2016/416/) ##

58 min  
In this advanced session, find out how structs, classes, protocols, and generics are implemented in Swift. Learn about their relative costs in different dimensions of performance. See how to apply this information to speed up your code.

## Session 720 - [Conccurent Programming with GCD in Swift 3](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2016/720/) ##

35 min  
Swift 3 provides new interfaces that make it easier than ever to write applications with Grand Central Dispatch. Learn the basics of GCD and best practices on how to use it to architect your Swift application. You'll also hear about new APIs and other GCD improvements.
